SoundHelix
----------

Author: Thomas Schürger (thomas@schuerger.com)


Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------

1. SoundHelix complains about the MIDI device. What can I do?

Depending on your platform, the names of the available MIDI devices can change.
This is true even between different Windows platform. For example, the included
MIDI device is called "Microsoft GS Wavetable SW Synth" on Windows XP, but is
called "Microsoft GS Wavetable Synth" on Windows 7.

You can change the MIDI device to use in the XML file (look for the <device>
tag). If an invalid MIDI device is specified, SoundHelix will list the
available MIDI devices.

The standard MIDI device that is available in Java on all platforms is the
"Java Sound Synthesizer" device. This device provides a software synthesizer
that is compatible with the General MIDI standard. Please read the FAQ entry
about that device.


2. I'm using the MIDI device "Java Sound Synthesizer", but I can't hear anything. Why?

If you are using the standard MIDI device "Java Sound Synthesizer", please make
sure that a MIDI soundbank file is available. Otherwise the device will pretend
it's playing something but it will just remain silent. Please read the
following document about instructions how to download and install such a file:
http://java.sun.com/products/java-media/sound/soundbanks.html


3. What is the "groove" tag for?

The MidiPlayer device supports a "groove" tag. This tag defines how the ticks
are played. If it includes a single positive number, the ticks are played with
uniform length. If you provide more than one value (comma-separated), the tick
lengths are played using these numbers as ratios, repeating this pattern in a
round-robin manner. For example, if you use "2,1", then every even tick (ticks
are counted from 0) is played using 133% of its standard length and every odd
tick is played using 66% of the standard length, giving a ratio of 2:1. This
will make playing more groovy (try it out!). Of course, larger numbers and more
numbers are possible as well (e.g., "120,80", or "120,80,110,90").
